---
template: blog-post
title: New post
slug: New post
date: 2020-07-09 14:02
description: New post
---
<!--StartFragment-->

When working with web projects, the frequency required to query the database and get results is quite high. This involves a lot of code in your DAO classes and will affect readability and connection backlogs.

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

If we observe closely, its code is static, except for the `Model`class type and query in it.

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

For example, if we need Employee details, we will create the code with`Connection`,`Statement`,`ResultSet`, and closing blocks. If we require`Department`details, we need to do the same as before, except we change the`List`type to`Department`and the query we run through it.

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

Based on this experience, I came across one article by [Roberto Benitez](http://baseprogramming.com/blog1/author/administrator/)on this [blog](http://baseprogramming.com/blog1/2017/08/24/automating-jdbc-crud-operations-with-reflection/).

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

Please go through the above article and come back here to see how I used it to serve the previously discussed problems.

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

To implement, check out the steps below:

1. Create a custom annotation
2. Create a `Model ` class, which contains mapping fields to the `ResultSet` column names with the created annotation.
3. Call the `ResultSet`
4. Load the `ResultSet` for each value into the object
5. Check for the `Primitive` type
6. Auto-box the `Primitive` type class.

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

### **Create the of Custom Annotation**

Here is how we created the custom annotation:

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

```
@Retention(RetentionPolicy.RUNTIME)
public @interface DBTable {
public String columnName();
}
```

<!--StartFragment-->

### **Creation of the Model Class**

Here is how we created the `Model` class, which contains mapping fields for the `ResultSet` column names with the created annotation:

```
public Class Employee{

@DBTable(columnName ="emp_id")
private int empId;

@DBTable(columnName ="emp_name")
private String empName;

//Getters and setters

//Default constructor // mandatory

}
```

<!--EndFragment-->